Florida Surgeon General Issues Warning For mRNA Coronavirus Vaccines: ‘FL Will Not Be Silent On The Truth’

Florida Surgeon General Joseph A. Ladapo, MD, PhD, said in a statement Friday afternoon that the state now recommends against giving men ages 18 to 39 mRNA coronavirus vaccines, citing a heightened risk of cardiac-related death.

The statement from Ladapo comes at the conclusion of an analysis conducted by the Florida Department of Health that was carried out using a self-controlled case series, a technique used to evaluate vaccine safety, the state said.

“This analysis found that there is an 84% increase in the relative incidence of cardiac-related death among males 18-39 years old within 28 days following mRNA vaccination,” the statement said. “With a high level of global immunity to COVID-19, the benefit of vaccination is likely outweighed by this abnormally high risk of cardiac-related death among men in this age group. Non-mRNA vaccines were not found to have these increased risks.”

“As such, the State Surgeon General recommends against males aged 18 to 39 from receiving mRNA COVID-19 vaccines,” the statement continued. “Those with preexisting cardiac conditions, such as myocarditis and pericarditis, should take particular caution when making this decision.”

Most importantly, the analysis found that non-mRNA vaccines, such as the Johnson & Johnson vaccine, “were not found to have these increased risks among any population.”

The analysis said that the mRNA vaccines also increased the risk of cardiac-related death in men over the age of 60 by 10%.

“Studying the safety and efficacy of any medications, including vaccines, is an important component of public health,” said Surgeon General Dr. Joseph Ladapo. “Far less attention has been paid to safety and the concerns of many individuals have been dismissed – these are important findings that should be communicated to Floridians.”

One study in Denmark has found that the absolute risk of two heart conditions (myocarditis and pericarditis) after taking a COVID mRNA vaccine varied between the type of vaccine taken.

“The corresponding rates of myocarditis or pericarditis within 28 days of vaccination in the Denmark study was 1.8 per 100 000 vaccinated individuals (95% CI, 0.8-3.4 per 100 000 vaccinated individuals) for BNT162b2 and 9.4 per 100 000 vaccinated individuals (95% CI, 5.0-16.0 per 100 000 vaccinated individuals) for mRNA-1273; dose 1 findings were not reported,” the Journal of the American Medical Association reported.

Today, we released an analysis on COVID-19 mRNA vaccines the public needs to be aware of. This analysis showed an increased risk of cardiac-related death among men 18-39. FL will not be silent on the truth.

