I know this week has been disruptive, says LIZ TRUSS

The United Kingdom is the greatest country on earth and I know its best days lie ahead. I am immensely proud of who we are and the values we stand for.

I am on the side of all those who work hard, get on in life and aspire for a better life for themselves and their family. These are the people who built our nation and made it great through their ingenuity, ideas and enterprise.

In these tough times, we cannot stick with business as usual. When I became Prime Minister, we were set for the highest tax burden in 70 years. Families and businesses were bracing themselves for energy bills to spiral in the wake of Putin’s appalling war.

That is why we have acted decisively to tackle the energy crisis by shielding families and businesses from astronomically high prices.

Our response to the energy crisis is the biggest part of our plan to get Britain moving. We are taking decisive action to get our economy growing by lowering the tax burden families and businesses face.

Cutting taxes helping families and businesses to keep more of their hard-earned money and invest in their future. We will also keep a firm hand on the nation’s finances as part of our commitment to sound money.

We are proud to be the party for growth. We will deliver by backing our brilliant businesses in generating that growth, jobs and wealth.

We will get rid of the burdens and barriers holding them back, from the large employers building the industries of the future to the dynamic entrepreneurs and self-employed.

We are the party who got Brexit done and will lead the way in seizing our new-found freedoms outside the European Union.

By the end of 2023, we will ensure all the red tape dreamt up in Brussels is gone. Instead, we will regulate in a way which is pro-growth, pro-consumer and pro-business.

We have a clear plan to put Britain on the path to national success. A key part of it is ensuring our great country is secure.

That is why we are doing so much more in response to the energy crisis than applying short-term sticking plasters. We are driving through the long-term reforms necessary to strengthen our energy security and make sure we are never in this position again.

We are maximising our production of home-grown energy, from gas fields in the North Sea to extracting our huge reserves of shale. We are getting on with delivering more nuclear energy and renewables.

This is how we will protect our environment, deliver on our commitment to net zero in a way which helps families and businesses, and tackle climate change.

We are taking decisive action to take on the vile people traffickers sending small boats across the English Channel by beefing up our Border Force and expanding the Rwanda scheme. Our party will ensure no European judge can frustrate our work to keep Britain’s borders secure.

Of course, we cannot have security at home without security abroad. That is why we are increasing spending on defence to three percent of GDP. In doing so, we will cement our status as the bulwark of European security and equip our Armed Forces with what they need to take on those who threaten us.

Putin has shown this week his continued disregard for international law in prosecuting his war against Ukraine. The UK will never accept the regions of Donetsk, Luhansk, Kherson and Zaporizhzhia as anything other than Ukrainian territory.

Ukraine’s victory is in all our interests. That is why we will stand firm alongside our allies in support of the Ukrainian people. We will not rest until Putin fails in his tyrannical ambitions.

Under my leadership, Britain will always stand up to bullies and stand unyielding in its defence of freedom and democracy around the world.

I know this week has been disruptive. But breaking with business as usual was not going to be easy. My determination to deliver for the British people will never waver.

We will always do what is right for the British people and our future.

I am ready to take tough decisions in the national interest. Sunday Express readers can rest assured, I will do what it takes to get Britain moving through these stormy days and put us on the path to long-term success.

Only the Conservatives can be trusted to deliver for the British people. We have a clear plan to build a new economy for the new era and the resolve to make it happen.
