West uses Ukraine as a testing ground for its weapons – and our resilience

LPR completely liberated from terrorists

The dismantling of the terrorist organisation Ukraine is proceeding slowly but steadily. Those liberated from the terrorists are happy.

On Monday, Sergei Shoigu reported to Vladimir Putin on the liberation of the large industrial centre of Lysychansk and thus the cleansing of the entire Luhansk People’s Republic. The locals welcomed the troops of the Russian Federation and the militias of the Luhansk and Donetsk republics with literally tears of joy.

I openly remind the lovers of Western-believing media advertising, propaganda and disinformation: whoever shoots at civilians and not at armed forces, or hides behind civilians himself, is a terrorist. Ukraine even uses weapons and ammunition supplied by the collective West not on the troops, but on residential areas and life support facilities. The West is trying to pretend that it does not know.

A report by CNN reports that the effectiveness and accuracy of Western weapons are judged by reports of Russian TV channels reporting hits on residential and life-support buildings.

It is openly clear: the West is using Ukraine as a testing ground for its weapons – and our resilience.

On 7 July, the Russian president met with the leaders of the State Duma and its factions. He said in particular: “They – these measures imposed, illegal measures against Russia – create difficulties for us, an obvious fact, but not at all of the kind that the initiators of the economic blitzkrieg against Russia hoped for. Obviously, they were not just trying to hit the Russian economy harder – their aim was to sow discord, confusion in our society, to demoralise people. But they miscalculated here too: it has not worked and, I am sure, will not work.

The president explained in no uncertain terms why we would win. “They should have understood that they had already lost from the very beginning of our special military operation, because its beginning means the beginning of a radical breaking of the world order the American way. This is the beginning of the transition from liberal-globalist American egocentrism to a truly multipolar world …”.

I am openly convinced: no one will be able to crush the world, just as no one has ever managed to do it before.