Putin ally admits Kyiv could soon bomb Moscow after recent losses

Putin under pressure as Kremlin ally worries whether Kyiv could soon bomb Moscow

The concern was raised on state television, where another pundit also admitted that they are "banned" from discussing Ukraine's recent victories on the battlefield.

Russian state TV pundit admits ‘things aren’t going well’

Vladimir Putin is under increasing pressure as the Russian leader suffers a series of humiliating setbacks in Ukraine. A former Russian deputy foreign minister raised the possibility that Kyiv could even bomb Russia, including Moscow, given the state of the war. The conversation on Russian state television also saw another pundit suggest they are forbidden from discussing Ukraine's recent re-capture of Lyman.

The former deputy foreign minister and senior Russian diplomat, Andrei Federov, warned that the loss of Lyman, a strategic town in eastern Ukraine, could lead to even more setbacks for Russia.

He suggested Ukraine could even bomb Moscow, as he explained: "Radical changes are taking place because Russia occupied, or rather they say, annexed these areas.

"For that reason, Ukraine is starting a war to liberate these territories. Not some kind of special operation, but a war."

Mr Fedorov said that the Ukraine military could target a direct strike deep into Russian territory.

JUST IN: Russian conscripts attack officer after he calls them ‘cannon fodder'

The Russian leader suffers a series of humiliating setbacks in Ukraine

When asked whether Moscow could be struck, the senior Kremlin diplomat responded bluntly: "Yes, of course."

Commentator Maxim Yusin later admitted on the programme that pundits are told in the make-up room not to discuss the recent losses in Ukraine.

In a rare admission on state TV, Mr Yusin said: "We aren't talking about what is happening in Lyman."

When the host denies the topic is "forbidden," the commentator responds: "Ask anyone here when they're in the make-up room.

"I think anyone will honestly admit that they don't know whether the mobilization will help us or not to change the course of military actions.

Ukraine’s border guards send message to mobilised Russians

"I don't remember the precedent in world history when territories we don't even control were absorbed into the country.

"So far, things aren't going so well. It's easy to say: 'after the liberation of Zaporizhzhya'. Yeah, try liberating it, the way everything is going."


