Al Gore Compares ‘Climate Deniers’ To Police In Uvalde, Attacks Senate Filibuster For Blocking Action On Climate Change

Climate activist and former Democratic Vice President Al Gore on Sunday said “climate deniers” were comparable to the police officers who failed to act during the mass shooting in Uvalde, Texas.

Appearing as a guest on NBC’s “Meet the Press,” Gore assailed Republicans and tactics like the Senate filibuster for preventing Democrats from passing legislation to tackle global warming. Gore compared “climate deniers” in Congress to police officers who were equipped and trained to deal with mass shooters, but failed to stop the tragedy at Robb Elementary School in Uvalde.

“You know, the climate deniers are really in some ways similar to all of those, almost 400 law enforcement officers in Uvalde, Texas, who were waiting outside an unlocked door while the children were being massacred,” Gore told host Chuck Todd.

“They heard the screams. They heard the gunshots and nobody has stepped forward,” he continued. “God bless those families that suffered so much. And law enforcement officials tell us that’s not typical of what law enforcement usually does.”

“And confronted with this global emergency, what we’re doing with our inaction in failing to walk through the door and stop the killing is not typical of what we are capable of as human beings. We do have the solutions. And I think these extreme events that are getting steadily worse and more severe are really beginning to change minds. We have to have unity as a nation to come together and stop making this a political football. It shouldn’t be a partisan issue.”

Gore then blasted the filibuster for preventing Congress from taking action, again comparing climate change to the Uvalde shooting.

“The same reason it is seemingly impossible for the Congress to pass legislation banning these weapons of war, these assault rifles that are being used to murder children in classrooms and create hundreds of mass casualty events already this year and that’s getting worse, the same reason we can’t pass legislation to, for example, to reinstate the ban on assault weapons is the same reason that we can’t pass climate legislation: we have the minority government,” said Gore.

“We have the filibuster still, which ought to be eliminated,” he added. “We have big money playing much too large a role in our politics, lobbyists for the fossil fuel industry, and they’re still running all of these advertisements trying to convince people that ‘it’s not that bad’ or ‘they’ve got this, don’t worry about it.’ We have got to rise to this challenge.”

“We, the people, have to solve this, and we have to instruct those who are in positions of leadership to start doing the right thing. Our survival as a species may depend upon it.”

