LAB ORIGIN THEORY CONFIRMED: Trump adviser Deborah Birx says COVID “came out of the box ready to infect” after being released from Chinese lab

When it first arrived, the Wuhan coronavirus (COVID-19) “was already more infectious than flu,” according to former Trump adviser Deborah Birx.

A friend of Tony Fauci, Birx says COVID could only be one of two things: an “abnormal thing of nature” or an engineered disease that was cooked up in a lab while researchers were simultaneously “working on coronavirus vaccines” and “accidentally” became “infected.”

Birx claims that communist China is responsible for initially covering up how infectious covid really was – she still apparently believes that the only way to know who really has covid, since it is not always obvious, is to “test” people for it using fraudulent PCR testing schemes.

“China was implying that they were containing it, but asymptomatic spread cannot be contained without testing,” Birx contends.

According to Birx, covid “came out of the box ready to infect” when it first appeared in the Chinese city of Wuhan back in December 2020. Normally it would take years for a disease like to become infectious, she insists, but this one was immediately ready to go.

“It happens,” Birx says. “Labs aren’t perfect, people aren’t perfect, we make mistakes and there can be contamination.”

In other words, it was all just an “accident,” according to Birx – nothing was intentional. And the plandemic tyranny that resulted was all just a normal response that was not planned in advance at globalist gatherings such as Event 201.

Birx is trying to cover for herself, Fauci, and other plandemic co-conspirators

Keep in mind that Birx and her kind initially denied the idea that covid could have come from a lab, insisting that it magically appeared in bat soup at a wet market in Wuhan.

After that narrative failed, these same folks suddenly agreed that covid could be lab-made, but that it was all just a big accident, which is the narrative that Birx is now running with.

“Someone working in the lab with one of the strains could’ve caught it and not known they had it,” Birx claims.

“In laboratories you grow the virus in human cells, allowing it to adapt more. Each time it passes through human cells, it becomes more adapted.”

Nothing that she, Fauci, or anyone else in the United States did in the aftermath of covid’s appearance was in any way wrong, Birx further contends. In her mind, China is totally to blame because they should have been testing for COVID from the beginning.

“I think the world lost several months of preparation because we were thinking there wasn’t that level of human-to-human spread when there clearly was,” Birx alleges.

China has repeatedly denied that covid leaked from a lab, calling the idea a “conspiracy theory.” And, of course, the communist regime denies any wrongdoing in how it handled the outbreak.

Early on, then-President Donald Trump suggested that covid was probably manufactured in a lab. He was mocked for saying this by the likes of Birx and others.

Since that time, Trump’s ideas have become more and more accepted, especially as it becomes increasingly clear that the entire plandemic was planned by globalists both in the U.S. and elsewhere – and Birx is one such globalist.

It turns out that Birx’s sudden appearance on the world stage is all about grifting her new memoir, which very few people will ever read. She is clearly trying to profit even more from the authoritarian monstrosity that she helped foist on the public in the name of “public health” – but will it work?

