Top UN Official . . . "We Own The Science And The World Should Know It"

[Everyone should note just how deeply the WEF is embedded in all this. It's certainly NOT a good thing . . . SC]

The UN rep also bragged about how they partnered with Google so only ‘official’ UN Covid and climate talking points would appear in results.

By declaring they ‘own the science,’ partnering with big tech to manipulate search results & pouring millions into media outlets, the unelected globalists are showing their true colors for all to see.

The United Nations’ global communications representative; Melissa Fleming, tells the WEF, “We own the science, and we think that the world should know it, and the platforms themselves also do,” during a panel on disinformation.

During the World Economic Forum’s Sustainable Development Impact Meetings last week, the unelected globalists held a panel on “Tackling Disinformation” where participants from the UN, CNN, and Brown University discussed how to best control narratives.

The Under-Secretary-General for Global Communications at the United Nations highlighted that the UN had partnered with several big tech companies, including TikTok and Google, to control COVID and climate narratives while claiming, “We own the science.”

On the topic of controlling the climate change narrative, Fleming remarked that the UN had partnered with Google, so that the unelected globalists’ authoritative narratives would appear at the top of search results.

“We partnered with Google,” said Fleming, adding, “for example, if you Google ‘climate change,’ you will, at the top of your search, you will get all kinds of UN resources.

“We started this partnership when we were shocked to see that when we Googled ‘climate change,’ we were getting incredibly distorted information right at the top.

“We’re becoming much more proactive. We own the science, and we think that the world should know it, and the platforms themselves also do,” she added.

But the unelected globalists’ efforts on narrative control didn’t end with partnering with Google to manipulate search results on climate change.

Fleming also highlighted that the UN worked with TikTok on a project called “Team Halo” to boost COVID messaging coming from medical and scientific communities on the Chinese-owned video sharing platform.

“We had another trusted messenger project, which was called ‘Team Halo’ where we trained scientists around the world and some doctors on TikTok, and we had TikTok working with us,” she said.

The UN claims to own the science, but if we take a closer look at who funds the UN’s “directing and coordinating authority on international health” — the World Health Organization (WHO) — we get a clearer picture of who is really calling the shots.

Historically, the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation, along with the Gates-backed GAVI vaccine alliance, have contributed more to the WHO program budget than all member nations, save two — the US and the UK.

Who owns the science again? . . .

